# vi

vi

### install

```
git clone --depth=1 <https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git> ~/.vim_runtime
sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_vimrc.sh

```

## command

### Usual command in normal mode

- hjkl :direct step
- H,L :page up/down
- u :undo
    - ^r :redo
- `:q` :quit
- `:w` :write
- ^f :find file
- `:terminal` : open a terminal window ( same ^w N )
    - ^\ ^n :back to normail mode
        - i : back to terminal mode
    - `^w ""` : paste
    - `^w :` =goto command
- G :move to end of file
    - gg :move to begin of file
- :?, :/ =search backward/forward
- :%s/$A/$B/gc =replace $A to $B
- ^u,^d :page up / down
    - gg :goto top
    - G :goto end of file
- `:#` :jump to line #

### Insert mode

- alt-u :undo
- alt-jkhl :move direct

### Selection mode :Delete ,copy & paste

1. v :enter selection mode
    1. V :enter linewise selection mode
    2. ^v : enter block selection mode
2. h, j, k and l :to move left, down, up, right respectively
3. d :cut (delete)
4. y :copy (yank)
5. p :paste
- dd :delete one line
- d#d :delete # lines
- x :detete char

### Split

- ^W,
    - s :create a horizontal split.
    - v :create a vertical split.
    - jkhl :switch split
        - also ^jkhl same
        - also direction key
    - ,+ :horizental smaller/bigger
    - <,> :vertical smaller/bigger
    - `:resize x` :horizental size change
        - `res +/-x` : add or decress horizental size
    - `:vertical resize x` :vertical size change to x
        - `:vertical resze +x` : vertical size add x
    - | :maximum vertical
    - _ :maximum horizental
    - = :equal all size
    - r,R :swap
    - T :current to new window
    - c :close split
    - o :close all split except current

### Tab

- :tabe =create new tab with $file
    - :tabe $FileName
- gt :next tab
- gT :previous tab
- #gt :goto # tab
- ^w c :close
- :tab ball =show all buffer in tab

### New & Open

- :e $FileName =edit file
- :new =create a new file
- :ls =list all opened files
- :ls will show your open buffers.
    - :buffers =as :ls
- :b $number =open the specified buffer in the current pane.
- :b $FileNamePrefix =open relative file buffer
- :bn =buffer next
- :bp =buffer previous

### Search & Replace(substitute)

- :s/foo/bar/g :substitute
Find each occurrence of 'foo' (in the ***current line only***), and replace it with 'bar'.
- :%s/foo/bar/g
Find each occurrence of 'foo' (in ***all*** lines), and replace it with 'bar'.
- :%s/foo/bar/gc
Change each 'foo' to 'bar', but ***ask*** for confirmation first.
- :%s/\<foo\>/bar/gc
Change only whole words ***exactly matching*** 'foo' to 'bar'; ask for confirmation.
- :%s/foo/bar/gci
Change each 'foo' (***case insensitive*** due to the i flag) to 'bar'; ask for confirmation.
- :%s/foo\c/bar/gc is the same because \c makes the search ***case insensitive***.
This may be wanted after using :set noignorecase to make searches case sensitive (the default).
- :%s/foo/bar/gcI
Change each 'foo' (case sensitive due to the I flag) to 'bar'; ask for confirmation.
- :%s/foo\C/bar/gc is the same because \C makes the search case sensitive.
This may be wanted after using :set ignorecase to make searches case insensitive.

### You Complete Me

In insert mode

- ^p :basic tab completion, pulling from a variety of sources
- ^n :the same as ^P but backward
- ^X ^L	:whole line completion
- ^X ^O	:syntax-aware omnicompletion

### NerdTree

- ,nn :toggle tool
- `:NERDTree` :open this tool
- `:NERDTreeClose` :close
- o :open the file in a new buffer or open/close directory.
- t :open the file in a new tab.
- i :open the file in a new horizontal split.
- s :open the file in a new vertical split.
- p :go to parent directory.
- r :refresh the current directory.
- I: Toggle hidden files
- m: Show the NERD Tree menu
- R: Refresh the tree, useful if files change outside of Vim
- ?: Toggle NERD Tree's quick help

### Other

- ^- :smaller font
- ^+ :lager font
- :w =write
- :q =quit
- :map : show all mappings
- :nmap for normal mode mappings
- :vmap for visual mode mappings
- :imap for insert mode mappings

### More in .vimrc

- `set nu` :show line number

## more

[https://www.protectedtext.com/viprwp](https://www.protectedtext.com/viprwp)